EPEL 10 for V2 blog (#822)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/blog/2025-05-13-epel-10-kitten-v2.md

---
title: "EPEL Packages Are Now Available for AlmaLinux Kitten 10 x86_64_v2!"
type: blog
author:
 name: "Eduard Abdullin"
 bio: "The Release and Automation Engineer."
 image: /users/eduard-abdullin.jpg
date: '2025-05-14'
images:
  - /blog-images/2025/2025-05-13-epel-10-kitten-v2.png
post:
    title: "EPEL Packages Are Now Available for AlmaLinux Kitten 10 x86_64_v2!"
    image: /blog-images/2025/2025-05-13-epel-10-kitten-v2.png

---

AlmaLinux OS Foundation is happy to announce that EPEL support is now available on the **x86_64_v2** architecture for AlmaLinux Kitten 10!

> Many users rely on Fedora EPEL for extra tools and packages, and we know that AlmaLinux users want access to Fedora EPEL packages on every architecture that AlmaLinux supports. Fedora EPEL doesn't cover x86_64_v2,  since Fedora, CentOS, and RHEL don’t build for this architecture. [ALESCo decided](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/ALESCo/blob/master/rfcs/0001-build-fedora-epel-for-almalinux-and-almalinux-kitten-x86_64_v2.md) to build EPEL packages from Fedora’s source RPMs (SRPMs) to make x86_64_v2 just as functional and useful as any other AlmaLinux Kitten 10 architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many users rely on Fedora EPEL for extra tools and packages, and we know that AlmaLinux users want access to Fedora EPEL packages on every architecture that AlmaLinux supports. Fedora EPEL doesn't cover x86_64_v2 on EL10  since CentOS Stream 10 and RHEL 10 aren't built for this architecture (they've moved up to a baseline of v3). [ALESCo decided](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/ALESCo/blob/master/rfcs/0001-build-fedora-epel-for-almalinux-and-almalinux-kitten-x86_64_v2.md) to build EPEL packages from Fedora’s source RPMs (SRPMs) to make x86_64_v2 just as functional and useful as any other AlmaLinux Kitten 10 architecture.
```

## Will it be available for AlmaLinux 10?

Yes! As soon as 10.0 Stable is released, we'll work on providing the EPEL packages support for x86_64_v2 as well. Meanwhile, you can help us by telling how that works for you on AlmaLinux Kitten 10. 

## How It Works

> We regularly check [EPEL repo](https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/10/Everything/source/tree/) for the latest stable packages, grab their SRPMs, and rebuild them using the [AlmaLinux Build System](https://build.almalinux.org/). These rebuilt packages are signed with a dedicated GPG key and then released to a [dedicated repository](https://epel.repo.almalinux.org). They also have the `.alma_altarch` postfix for easy identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We regularly check [EPEL repo](https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/10/Everything/source/tree/) for the latest stable packages, grab their SRPMs, and rebuild them using the [AlmaLinux Build System](https://build.almalinux.org/). These rebuilt packages are signed with a dedicated GPG key and then released to a [dedicated repository](https://epel.repo.almalinux.org). They also have the `.alma_altarch` sufffix for easy identification.
```

> We regularly check [EPEL repo](https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/10/Everything/source/tree/) for the latest stable packages, grab their SRPMs, and rebuild them using the [AlmaLinux Build System](https://build.almalinux.org/). These rebuilt packages are signed with a dedicated GPG key and then released to a [dedicated repository](https://epel.repo.almalinux.org). They also have the `.alma_altarch` sufffix for easy identification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We regularly check [EPEL repo](https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/10/Everything/source/tree/) for the latest stable packages, grab their SRPMs, and rebuild them using the [AlmaLinux Build System](https://build.almalinux.org/). These rebuilt packages are signed with a dedicated GPG key and then released to a [dedicated repository](https://epel.repo.almalinux.org). 

We also ensured that our EPEL packages have the .alma_altarch suffix for easy identification. If you find a bug while using an EPEL package that we have produced, it would be best to attempt to reproduce it on a non-x86_64_v2 machine with the same package. If the bug is reproducible on a non-x86_64_v2 system, using upstream EPEL, then the bug can be [reported to the EPEL packager](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL/FAQ#Where_can_I_find_help_or_report_issues?). If you narrow it to our package on a x86_64_v2 environment, then you should report it to our bug tracker: [bugs.almalinux.org](https://bugs.almalinux.org)

```

## How To Use

> EPEL support on x86_64_v2 works just like it [does](https://wiki.almalinux.org/repos/Extras.html#epel) on any AlmaLinux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EPEL support on x86_64_v2 works just like it [does](https://wiki.almalinux.org/repos/Extras.html#epel) on any other AlmaLinux system:
```

```
dnf install epel-release
```

Just run the command in the terminal and you are all set! 

## Contribute and Get Help

Please report any bugs you may see on the [Bug Tracker](https://bugs.almalinux.org/).

> If you'd like to share your feedback, contribute to AlmaLinux and packaging, or have a question to discuss, check the [Core SIG](https://wiki.almalinux.org/sigs/Core.html) and join us on the [AlmaLinux Community Chat](https://chat.almalinux.org), [Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/almalinux) or [X](https://twitter.com/almalinux).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you'd like to share your feedback, contribute to AlmaLinux and packaging, or have a question to discuss, check the [Core SIG](https://wiki.almalinux.org/sigs/Core.html) and join us on the [AlmaLinux Community Chat](https://chat.almalinux.org), [Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/almalinux), in the [Fediverse](https://fosstodon.org/@almalinux), or on [X](https://x.com/almalinux).
```
